now joined here in our Doha Studio by
veteran Palestinian activist and
politician and former member of the
Palestine Liberation Organization
executive committee Hannan asrawi Dr
ashrawi really great to have you with us
here in thank you it's good to be with
you H given what we're seeing now
already on the ground and Rafa let me
start by asking you what your greatest
fears are in the coming days and weeks
well it's not that I'm worried about a a
disaster a human catastrophe and so on
because it's happening yeah it's already
happened we are in the midst of a
genocide and Israel is H bent on taking
it a notch up uh in the sense that it
once having treated the Palestinians
with total dehumanization like herds of
cattle where they shift them from one
place to the other carrying out
demographic engineering thinning out the
population as Netanyahu says they forced
them into the South they they shelled
them and bombed them and sniped them on
the way and now they're saying no now
you have to move somewhere else because
we're going to destroy the last Refuge
that you had so everybody of course is
worried and everybody knows that there
are no limits to Israeli depravity to
Israeli blood thirst to the use of of
massacres and Carnage and so on to
achieve we don't know what ends because
they don't know what ends they cannot
destroy Hamas and they cannot achieve
absolute Victory as he says so in a
sense that is a will full infliction of
pain death and destruction without any
accountability and uh buying time and
and uh using all sorts of
procrastinations and uh diversionary
tactics to say they are engaged in talks
and their primary objective is to
release the hostages where their primary
objective is to destroy uh not just the
Palestinians of Gaza but all of
Palestine you talked about moving people
yes from place to place and now wanting
to move move them somewhere else Egypt
has said that a red line for them would
be the forced Mass displacement of
Palestinian refugees over that border
yeah How likely is that regardless it is
likely because they have been carrying
out forc displacement they've been
carrying out and the uh um International
court of justice indicated that there
are
certainly uh
genocidal acts being committed but at
the same time this is rather
disingenuous because you have totally
closed them in uh with nowhere to go now
they are in ra which was told they were
told safe area yeah 1.4 million tightly
if you throw a stone you will hit 10
people there so the tightly closed in
with nowhere to go and they are selling
them and they're using sniper fire to
kill them and you've seen footage of
children of women with their own babies
being shot in Cold Blood being sniped so
they sniped s they killed they shot a
doctor in the middle of an operation
they're doing these things to a helpless
captive population saying they are
looking for captives or they are looking
for Hamas leaders so what is
disingenuous is that they have nowhere
to go and they are going to be shot at
and so on and then they say uh they
cannot be hered out or or the Egypt
doesn't want them to go to Egypt we
don't want them to leave they don't want
to leave but in order for them to stay
stop the Carnage nobody addresses the
real issue which is Israel's genocidal
policies Israel's massacres Israel's
Carnage Israel's impunity and of course
the the blatant support by the US and
the West in order to give it more room
more space more blessings to continue
with this want vicious destruction so
don't tell me you don't go anywhere stop
killing them first stop the massacres
well let me ask you then about the
possibility of the ceas fire we just
heard Charles there talk about how
Israel is going going to Cairo with no
idea of a potential ceasefire on the
table but obviously that's what Hamas
has been offering well and calling for
yeah this is a deal primarily at the
beginning of it to release captives
given that that might result in at least
pauses in the fighting How likely is
that that that change in momentum to
lead to a lasting ceasefire if a deal is
indeed made I doubt first of all I doubt
whether a deal will be made first first
of all the Americans don't want one they
gave Israel time and space to do it
right they said provided you take you
know you can do this but you take
measures to protect innocent lives well
have they protected have they taken
measures have they listened no so in a
sense they gave them a green light to
continue number one number two the focus
is always on releasing the hostages or
the captives or whatever without totally
decontextualized without looking at the
real issues that real issues is that
there is a genocide taking place we as
Palestinians have over 10,000 11,000
captives in Israel we have 3 4,000 uh uh
administrative detes without trial
without charges and so on and every day
they keep arresting them Israel wants to
focus and the us only on releasing
captives what about a whole Palestinian
population held captive what about
thousands and thousands of Palestinians
detained and held captive than Israeli
jails well then how how do you change
the narrative we've spoken a lot about
the United States right now yeah and
I've been wondering as we've seen the
Palestinian Authority president mud
Abbas he he's been in in Doha in recent
days as well there's been a lot of
speculation around a potential broker
reconciliation between Hamas and fata do
you think that that some kind of unified
Palestinian front would that give
Palestinians more agency here and an
ability to change a narrative absolutely
it's not just to change the narrative
but it should enable the Palestinians
empower the Palestinians to take a
unified stance now one of the strategies
of Israel and the US is to isolate Hamas
totally demonize Hamas as you know and
to label everybody as a terrorist Hamas
and all the Palestinians and therefore
give themselves a free hand to carry out
this Carnage and death and destruction
but the moment we repair internally our
own political system the moment we have
a democratic inclusive uh healthy
political system the more empowered we
are not just to
withstand Israeli onslaughts and and
efforts but also in order to repair our
decisionmaking process in order to gain
legitimacy and support also by the
public you speak there about a
democratic and inclusive functioning
government absolutely when you yourself
resigned from the PLO in in 2020 I
believe it was
you were very critical of how it was
being run at the time right what's your
assessment of the state of the PLO now
unfortunately the trajectory has
continued which is the the weakening of
the PLO entirely taking over decision
making by not even the PA but the
presidency and a few people around him
and the PLO has been sidelined
undermined and and uh in a sense it
weakened the uh body politic it weakened
the representational body of all pal
Ians everywhere not just in the West
Bank Jerusalem and Gaza but also in
throughout the world because this is as
yat used to this is the national home of
all the Palestinians this is the
inclusive representative body and it is
in bad need of repair and reform and
revitalization not all Americans but the
way the Palestinians when I resigned I
said very openly first of all we have to
make room for the young people for women
we have to uh have a genuinely
Democratic representative body and at
the same time the total
immobilization and disregard and
sidelining of the PLO has to stop
because the the PA is representative
only of part of the people on part of
the land and is an outcome of a signed
agreement which is essentially flawed
the PLO is a national body and it needs
serious repair and and reform and
restructuring and there has been a lot
of discussion about what that reform
might look like Before I Let You Go Dr
asrawi yeah I do want to ask you about
one specific thing you were very very
critical of Abu Dhabi when they
normalized ties with Israel yeah there's
been a lot of talk about normalization
of ties with Saudi Arabia yeah the US
seems to be wanting to use that as some
kind of a carrot here to try to to end
the conflict would you be against that
now if if it actually brought an end to
the offensive in Gaza it won't bring an
end to an offensive because when the US
it was during the days of trump brought
several Arab countries not just the the
Emirates and others to normalize with
Israel they told us this is only in
order to stop the annexation but they
were increasing the annexation and they
continued don't do us favors like that
please so they normalized the occupation
they undermined the Arab peace
initiative they created fragmentations
within the Arab body body politics both
vertical and horizontal the people and
their leadership the Arab people don't
like normalization but let me say this
the Americans the Americans This is a
lynchpin of their policy in the region
uh normalization why they want to
integrate as they say Israel in the
region they want to reposition it as a
major political economic military
security intelligence power in order to
run the show it is not just the
Palestinians of course there's
sidelining the Palestinians and they're
giving Israel a fre hand to destroy it
the way you're seeing it but they are re
re warding Israel because American
policy from Trump and on is just to be
able to reposition Israel in such a
prominent place in the region to
redefine enemies and friends only Iran
is your enemy Israel is your ally and so
on and to weaken the Palestinian cause
and the whole Arab system and structure
in the region this is extremely
dangerous Dr Hanan asrawi veteran
politician and Palestinian activist
thank you so much for joining us here in
thank you Anastasia it's a good to be
with you